.TH tapasco-build-libs 1 "May 11, 2017" "version 2017.1"  "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
tapasco-build-libs \- Build all libraries and kernel modules for tapasco(1).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tapasco-build-libs
[options]*
.SH DESCRIPTION
The TaPaSCo runtime consists of three parts:
.PP
1.
.B libtapasco (.so/.a)
.PP
2.
.B libplatform (.so/.a)
.PP
3.
.B loadable kernel module (LKM)
.PP
.B
tapasco-build-libs can be used on the host system to build all three components
from source (see below for build requirements). The user space libraries
libtapasco(3) and libplatform(3) will reside below in $TAPASCO_HOME/arch/lib and
$TAPASCO_HOME/platform/lib, respectively. The loadable kernel module can be
found in $TAPASCO_HOME/platform/[PLATFORM]/module.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h|\-\-help
.RS
print help message and exit
.RE
.TP
\-\-mode (clean | release | debug | driver_debug)
.RS
build mode (default: release):
.RS
.I clean
removes all binaries and intermediate outputs
.PP
.I release
builds libraries and kernel module with minimal logging
.PP
.I debug
builds libraries with configurable logging enabled, kernel module w/minimal logging
.PP
.I driver_debug
like debug, but activates kernel message output, see dmesg(1)
.RS
.B NOTE: THIS COMES WITH A SEVERE PERFORMANCE PENALTY, NEVER USE FOR MEASUREMENTS!
.RE
.RE
.RE
.TP
\-\-rebuild
.RS
force rebuild of libraries / LKM
.RE
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.SS libtapasco and libplatform
Reqyire cmake and working C and C++ compilers; in some cases, libatomic may be
also required.
.SS loadable kernel module
Requires linux kernel headers for the currently running kernel. Can be supplied
by setting the $LINUX_HOME environment variable.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TAPASCO_HOME
.RS
Path to TaPaSCo root installation folder (where setup.sh is located).
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
tapasco(1)
